unlike any sales rep your website works
24/7 around the clock to either attract
qualified leads and drive revenue or do
the exact opposite and repel your dream
fit
[Music]
Prospect hey I'm Sam Dunning founder
over at breaking bb.com and this episode
we're going to dive into exactly how you
can research design and build your B2B
website to attract qualify build trust
withth and convert dream clients into a
steady flow of qualified leads and
pipeline everything from initial
research to design tips to content and
more also dive into a few tips on the
SEO front to make sure your website gets
in front of those dream clients when
they're searching for what you do on
Google to drive those inbounds in so
with that let's dive into the episode
why do you think websites and
salespeople are the same what do B2B
tech companies wrong when they're
starting SEO and the third thing we're
going to talk about your LinkedIn
content like the as the public series
and how that's going for you okay so why
do you think terrible sales people and
websites are the same Sam what's what's
going on there yeah yeah sure thing so
often say and ramble on LinkedIn as to
many others that your website can be a
247 sales rep as unlike a salesperson
that you may or may not hire that
typically would only work 9 to5 Monday
to Friday whereas your website can be
working around the clock either helping
to grow your business trust brand and
revenue or doing the exact opposite I'll
share a quick story that will give you
some context so some time ago this is
probably going back four or five years
ago maybe a little bit more someone
connected with me on LinkedIn they
dropped me a DM and they reached out
with a problem that I had at the time so
it was relevant and it was for some
piece of software I can't even remember
it might have been a piece of CRM or
something similar and because I had a
need at the time that cold Outreach was
super relevant so yeah I'll hop on a
demo so we booked the demo I jumped on
the zoom with that sales rep and it was
probably one of the worst calls I've
ever had so they introduced themsel and
then went on to talk about their company
for about 2 minutes like where they're
set up the founders the awards they'd
won then they talked about the tool for
another five minutes then they were
sharing all their client wins all their
results probably about 15 minutes in the
sales rep hadn't asked me one question
to understand if I was facing any of the
problems they fixed hadn't even asked
anything about my world my current state
where I'm trying to get to my goals the
results I want to achieve out of this
and probably about 20 minutes in if that
I had to cut it short I said dude like
you've just talked about how great you
are for 15 minutes you haven't B to ask
me anything I haven't even seen anything
of your offer or your demo let's cut it
off wish you all the best but it's just
isn't for me so the worst sales folk
ever just talk about how great they are
their offer and how amazing they are and
it's the same websites that's how it
back to websites and this is recent you
sure that wasn't that that phone call
wasn't with me cuz that sounds like my
first sales demo call four years ago and
I got so excited I was on the call and I
was so enthusiastic because I really
like the product and I was like it can
do this and it can do that and it's
great it does all these things and then
finally the owner of the company was
like hey I know you really like the
product but that's not how you should do
a demo cost so what should a website how
do you make it so that it's working for
you 247 and it's not destroying your
brand and it doesn't suck yeah so I'll
go through some high level Basics so
basically do the opposite of that that
sales career so you've probably been
there you might have been on a a tech
company's website or a software
company's website or just your B2B
website in general and so many of them
what I call ego driven so they're driven
mainly by the founders or the CEOs or
the EXA team and what they think looks
cool sounds good is going to look good
on there as opposed to do what you
should be doing is building for dream
clients or Focus buyers aka the folks
that are going to land on your site and
potentially work with you or request a
call or book a demo whatever that next
step is because you've got a warehouse
full of your software you've got an
unlimited supply of what you're
providing you don't need to buy any more
of it why should it please you it should
please the folks you actually want to do
business with so you've probably been
there where you've been on a website
you've read the headline and it's
something super jarg and focused and
confusing clear as mud where it's
something like we help you 10x your
revenues with our all-in-one Wizardry
platform that's going to Skyrocket
revenue for the next 365 days and you've
read the headline you're thinking not
sure what this does scroll down a bit
further on the homepage nope still no
idea scroll right down to the foot no
I'm still clueless like I have no idea
what problem this fixes how it helps me
or how it's going to improve a job that
I'm trying to get done so in short
clarity as your friend just like
messaging copyrighting 101 or your
website so there's a test that you can
run called the grunt test on your
website and basically that was coined by
a chat called Donald Miller I believe
and it basically the principle is within
a few seconds of landing on your website
homage the top section the hero or the
banner area could you stick your website
in front of caveman sitting in their
cave grumbling away they've seen your
site for the first time ever and could
they within a few seconds of firing up
that laptop understand exactly what you
do how it helps them and how to either
learn more or take that next step if not
your website is not hitting the mark and
you're potentially getting folks that
are B ing off and maybe going to a
competitor or getting frustrated and
getting a sour taste in their mouth
about what you do that's the first step
but there's a ton more yeah Sam I'm
guilty of that when I first launched B2B
pod Pros I found a catchy headline that
was I saw it on another website and I
made it my own and I thought it was
fantastic because I understood the
product and I got it and then I shared
it with a few people and I'm like hey
can you just take a look at my homepage
give me feedback and a couple of people
came back and they Circle the headline
and they're like yeah I'm not really
sure what this means or I don't really
get this and that's when I realize yeah
I think I need to be I think I need to
write for the intended user and not
necessarily what gets me excited yeah
yeah exactly there's so much that you
can do to make your website resonate one
of the most powerful words I could say
when it comes to website design
messaging copy and the way you build it
out on on terms of your main pages is
resonating with Target prospects Target
clients and there's a whole bunch we
could talk about around customer
research doing cools with we shouldn't
be want clients or Target prospects but
like Karan is some of those Basics like
if we were to flip that sales demo on
its head and instead of doing what I
talked about where I had to hop off the
call early but if that salesperson had
taken the time to understand my world
any problems any frustrations like the
root cause of those problems the impact
those problems were having where I
wanted to get to and then after doing
all that then building trust with me
like saying okay this I understand XYZ
is the problem and this is the impact is
having on your business and this is
where you want to get to here's how
we've helped similar folks this is this
is the process here's some examples of
results here's the pricing and here's
the next step and your website should do
the same right a lot of especially in
the B2B World a lot of folks are coming
in probably with some level of education
on your offer if they found you through
search or an ad a recommendation however
they've been referred to your website
and typically on my podcast breaking B2B
we've interviewed like 380 B2B xxs and
from that data we've drilled it down and
understand B Tob execs want to go on
your site quickly get an idea of what
you do problem you fix and how it helps
them they want to check they want to see
your offer in action so if it's a SAS
tool or software they want to see some
kind of live demo video examples GIF
examples Etc they want to see some proof
of results so that might be case studies
customer testimonials video reviews
examples they want to check your pricing
so they want to see they can actually
afford your offer before they take the
time to speak to a salesperson they want
to get their common questions answered
any FAQs around integration pricing set
up and then on the basis you check those
boxes they want to make it nice and easy
for them to book a call or schedule a
time to book a demo or whatever that
next step is so if you do that stuff
you're ahead of 97% of most B2B websites
yeah yeah and I think the other thing
the guy got wrong that on that phone
call the salesperson is that it sounds
to me like he didn't even Google your
name because if he at least Googled your
name he would have realized who you were
and how you are like the SEO Superstar
and one of the top SEO gurus out there
and I would have greeted you that way
hey I'm talking to the Sam Dunning this
guy probably knows his stuff at least in
the tech space but it sounded like he
didn't even know who you were yeah to be
fair to him this was going back four or
five years ago so I wasn't that big on
LinkedIn the podcast might have just
started so I was less of a nobody than I
am now but yeah like you said if
someone's booked a demo or Discovery
call with you like you said a flick a
quick flick on that
LinkedIn you tired of competitors
ranking above you on Google stealing
traffic leads and mind share from dream
C every time they're searching for your
services or offers on Google breaking
B2B we fix that with our unusual
approach to SEO content marketing and
websites we craft B2B SEO strategies and
websites for Revenue not vanity head
over to Breaking bb.com to check our
results pricing or to book a call with
me all right let's jump into the second
topic and that is what do B2B tech
companies get wrong when they're
starting their SEO process or SEO
campaign or just whatever they're trying
to build out their yeah yeah so much so
much so a common thing that often
happens when it comes to SEO is I think
a lot of tech companies so perhaps the
founder or the the first marketing hire
might not have the best knowledge on SEO
so they let the common scenario might be
the founder or the owner of the business
says we've been relying too much on ads
or outbound sales or whatever Channel or
existing Network or if we've been funded
like our VC's have given us all our
clients to now every time I Google what
we do or the problem we fix or or our
solution I can see competitors ahead of
us it's getting annoying I know that
we're missing out on Google search
organic to drive traffic in inbound so
they'll raise that they'll realize
that's an issue they'll say look we need
to fix it and they'll either try
themselves or their task their marketing
lead they'll say we got to do SEO
they'll treat it as a tick boox app
activity the marketer will probably head
onto a tool like HF or some rush and go
okay let's look at a few keywords around
our offering all right these look low
difficulty okay let's build out a couple
blogs all right we're going to do how to
do X how to do y Chuck that into chat GP
or a similar AI tool going to do that
okay I've built a couple articles Chuck
them on the website right back to my
other 99 jobs I've got to do this month
on my checklist and I'll trck it as a
checkbook checklist activity then the
founder will probably go back to the
market and say how did SEO go and
they'll be like yeah it's okay ranking
for few of these keywords and then
they'll ask how many demos or leads to
that drive none and they'll be like why
is that you just asked me to do SEO I
did some SEO so it's going in with just
a random like scattergun approach
strategy okay let's check out a few
articles and you've only got a scroll
Linked In and you'll see some folks
posting these crazy graphs like how we
got 10,000 visits in 20 days and then
I'll post in the comments oh cool really
good work on the traffic how many demos
or how many leads to the drive and then
there's just crickets because it was
just some random top-of the funnel query
that just drives a lot of traffic but
drives zero Revenue the long story short
is that folks take the wrong approach of
SEO they start at the top of funnel or
with a random strategy with articles as
opposed to what we call Revenue focused
SEO where you're actually working on
what is my dream client searching for
when they're ready to have a sales
conversation now so in our case at
breaking B2B we literally one of the
first exercises we did was we fired up a
Google sheet and we listed out like what
are the main types of businesses you
want to work with so that could be like
B2B SAS fintech SAS companies and so on
what are the main offers that we want to
be selling in R SEO web design podcast
production and what are the main kind of
frustrations problems impact of those
problems and results that these
companies have and when you're doing
that list for your company you want to
make sure these are industries that one
have the problem you fixed two are
motivated to fix it realize it's an
issue and three actually have the cash
to invest in that offer because there's
no point trying to wasting money on an
SEO campaign or rating resource on SEO
campaign going after a target market
that may have the problem you fixed but
doesn't have the cash to invest in your
offer so that's super important and then
one of the simplest things you can do is
once you've listed out all those
Industries you want to go after and the
main offers or products or services that
you want to sell to them is building out
using a Search tool whether it's HF Sun
rush or similar finding out what Search
terms are relevant for those offers and
then building out exhaustive list of all
those bottom of the funnel landing pages
that you can build out and trying to
build a best-in-class page for each one
of those offers initially and really
exhausting what we call bottom of the
funnel or Revenue driv driven SEO so
that's an approach that a lot of
companies just don't do properly like
they dabble at it and then they'll do
some blog articles and a lot of that
gets missed there's a ton of other
strategies to B2B sasio that's just one
of them yeah the marketing strategist
who described earlier I was thinking
myself yeah that's me I would do some
SEO and I'm not a professional at it and
I just do some just check the box but
I've been seeing your content on
LinkedIn and you really hone in on
diving into the bottom of the keyword
funnel and I have an interesting story
for you because I think you're going to
be fascinated by this the other day I
asked myself the question if next year I
want to drive let's just say $500,000 in
revenue for B2B pod Pros what do I need
to do to make that happen and you know
what after thinking about it the answer
was pretty clear to me was that I need
to rank on the first page in Google for
bottom of the funnel keyword like B2B
podcast media Network my brand needs to
be there and that was like clear as day
that's the one thing that I need to
focus on there's other things that I've
been doing but I was thinking that's the
one thing I need to focus on if I want
to do about half a million dollars in
Revenue next year and so I've been
seeing pushing out that content about
concentrating on the bottom of the
funnel keywords like comparison or
alternatives to other competitors so it
really hit home with me that's one of
the reasons that you're on the show
today is because I think what you preach
is very valuable not just for B2B tech
companies but I think for any businesses
that are out there and really want to
get to that next level in business
growth and I I think what you're saying
is very valuable there's something else
that you recently did is that you
secured three spots on Google for one
keyword and I want to ask you a little
bit about that what was that one keyword
and how did you do it I think I've done
it for a few now but I think one of the
recent ones was like B2B SEO guide I've
got a bunch around B2B SEO guides B2B
SEO play book B2B web design guide and
and that kind of stuff those are the
usual terms I tend to go after but to
share the strategy rather than just me
rambling on is there's this is like a
little hack a little tip that you can do
and it involves YouTube so it involves
video so basically to to go through the
long story The shorten version of this
is Let's Pretend you've mapped out maybe
a keyword that you really want to that's
going to be powerful for your Niche
that's maybe going to drive someity
ified traffic and and potentially leads
so let's say you build out a
best-in-class page for that so usually
when you build out Pages you want to
review the search engine like top three
organic rankings Pages see what format
they are it's called measuring the
search intent so are they solution Pages
service Pages blog articles are they
listicles are they comparisons what are
they what's ranking okay once you assess
that you know what type of page you need
to build you can assess what actually
ranks and then review those competitors
and look for gaps that you can improve
on that you can double down on and you
can basically provide more detailed more
helpful more useful more educational
more trustworthy content to have a
chance of ranking top Let's Pretend
you've done that you built out the page
one of my tips is to then whatever is
relevant to that topic build out a how-
to walkth through guide example YouTube
video on the topic and I usually stick
that like in the hero area with the
headline that call to action and what
that does is a few things one you've
built out a YouTube video that's
searchable because it's how to do
something or a guide or Playbook or an
examples so that alone is Evergreen
searchable content on YouTube that can
get traction build a brand Drive leads
you embed that into that page that
you're building out and that can
increase your click-through rate on
Google search results because some for
some keywords that might show your
listing as normal in the cups but also a
thumbnail next to it of your video but
not only that for some Search terms on
Google they have a video section so
sometimes if you do a search on mobile
or search on Dex desktop you'll see the
the video results so you can actually
get three results in the video tab it
usually shows three thumbnails plus your
organic search result which could be
four so four rankings and if you do an
ad you could even get five so you can
literally dominate the Surs if you take
that approach and that's just what we've
done for some of those qw like I think
CBO play but some B2B website B2B web
design terms you'll just see my ugly mug
three times in the in the video search
bar I'm curious is your website getting
more traffic than your YouTube channel
or or what's the split there YouTube's
probably higher I mean our website so
only just over 90 days so whilst we have
got some decent keywords ranking around
btb SEO and web design YouTube's doing I
don't know 10 11k views a month
something like that so I think YouTube's
a bit higher but the YouTube channel has
been going like four plus years so it
makes sense got you in your main call
Action in your YouTube videos is it like
a link in the description that you have
or what I wish I could give you sound
advice on YouTube because I'm yet to
crack it I'm for four years into YouTube
and I'm only 1.5k Subs it's usually
relevant to the content if it's a
podcast interview on breaking B2B then
I'll say check out the newsletter if
it's a dedicated topic on SEO I might
say and at the end I might say if you
want to book a cool go to the website so
it's usually contextual but I'm yet to
crack the YouTube algorithm okay all
right all right okay good segue into our
third topic which I'm a big fan of
you've got this series on LinkedIn
called ask the public and you're asking
various people on the street what is the
first thing they think of when they hear
marketer or a salesperson or LinkedIn
and it's not just this content's that
funny but a lot of your content is
really engaging and funny you did the
series called SEO fella and it was like
in black and white you got like Tony
Bennett in the background you and baby
face I don't know if that's a colleague
or whoever are like murdering this guy
putting a bag over his face and making
it look like you're throwing his body
over the roof and putting it into the
car because he ratted you out to the
Google police and then you got like the
cesio Superman guy too but where is this
coming friend has this has this always
been like you I don't know part of your
creative approach and what's the process
that you have in there do you devote
like a certain number of hours a month
like producing this content yeah I wish
I could say that there was a perfect
strategy that I followed but it
definitely wasn't like we've been
messing around with these unusual videos
on LinkedIn for at least two or three
years and like you say we've done
anything from SEO man SEO police SEO
fellas the SEO father like we've done so
many Goofs and spin-offs over the years
and they're a combination of like me and
at the time some colleagues and my video
guy who's a friend like often what we'll
do is we'll meet in Costa or a coffee
place we'll brainstorm we'll get the
notepad out and we'll just come up with
a load of ideas in the morning for half
an hour and then the same day we'll
shoot it he'll edit it and we'll have it
ready like within the day so that's
usually how we've done that's what we've
done for the one-off videos that you can
find on the link in and the YouTube and
then the ask the public stuff that was
very much like I'd seen on YouTube that
I think there's a channel called the
School of Hard Knocks where this guy
just his is a bit different like he goes
up to folks in really wealthy areas in
the states and ask them like how did you
build up a business and how did you like
become an entrepreneur and they share
their secrets and I thought no one's
done this in the B2B space I could just
ask random people on the street like B2B
marketing questions and they'll be like
what the hell are you talking about that
could be funny so it's just these kind
of things like I'm always trying to
think how can we differentiate how can
what how can I do something that's
relevant to what we do at breaking B2B
but it's going to make people remember
us is going to be funny and a bit
different to what anyone else is doing
so I'm always brainstorming ideas and
that ask the public seem to to do quite
well on some of those questions like
where I was just asking random people
what is SEO or how did you get to the
top of Google or does cold cooling still
work I asked someone that was walking
across a bridge Hey sir do you think
coold cooling still works and he said no
bloody doesn't I'm a policeman like you
shouldn't do it and I was oh Christ was
just good fun man yeah there was one guy
I think you asked him what is your what
do you think about LinkedIn and he said
something like yeah I don't think about
it and I don't use it and he just walked
off yeah or what do you think about
LinkedIn he was like who's
he yeah okay I think it's a brilliant
series and for those listening if you
haven't seen it yet you got to follow
Sam Dunning and and catch some of that
content I feel like it does
differentiate you with other people do
you think it's helped in terms of
building your personal brand and getting
you on another big podcast as a guest
and and maybe even speaking events and
things like that uh probably a bit
probably a bit these days a lot of the
stuff that I've done is just longevity
and sticking things out longer than
anyone else that's smarter than me would
do so a lot of the things that I've
grown like the podcast literally when I
started our podcast like over four years
ago now breaking B2B folks were like
even some people that like that there's
no point starting a podcast it's a waste
of time like you're not going to drive
any business from it and all that kind
of stuff and I was like you I'm
doing this because I enjoy it and
because I want to learn from people
smarter than me and eventually we
tweaked it we refined it over time and
and made it actionable so I was doing
solo episode sharing actionable tips on
websites SEO podcasting interviewing
marketing leaders making your
relationship sharing their stories and
we were driving business through
sponsorships through inbound leads
direct to Breaking B2B so yeah it's one
of those things right can I directly
attribute Revenue to asking people on
the street what they think about
LinkedIn and SEO possibly not but does
it keep me top of mind when people need
help with SEO yes yeah the other thing
too is that over time you you see
somebody's content and over time if
they're like doing the same thing
talking about the same topic utilizing
the same format you feel like okay I
already know what they do I already know
what they're talking about and you start
to scroll past their content and not
even care anymore whereas your stuff
it's refreshing it's new it's funny it's
hilar is and so I think that's one of
the things that makes you stand out on
LinkedIn versus other you know creators
and lack of a better word and there you
have it a big thank you to Eric for
having me on the innovators can laugh
podcast and as always if you want to
join thousands of Legends getting my
weekday B2B marketing email tips for
some weird website and SEO ideas unusual
experiments case studies as well as
fresh podcast updates head over to
breaking bb.com and hit that newslet Tab
and with that I should catch you on the
next one cheers
[Music]